## CQRS
- Stands for command query responsibility segregation 
- Commands refer to operations that update state of object/entity and query returns the state
- Two separate models, one for updating and one for reading
- Can use a single database or more

## Why we need it?
- Data is generally queried more than altered. CQRS allows us to scale up command and query sides independently.
- Can optimize each for high performance. For example creating indexes for reads but not for write since indexes slow down writes.
- Executing them on the same model can cause data contention or deadlocks
- The models can differ significantly. There might be columns needed for write that are not needed for write
- Can Manage security of command and query separately  

## Event Sourcing
- All changes made to an object or entity are stored as a sequence of immutable events instead of storing just current state.
- When state changes a new event is appended to the list of events in event store. Saving an event is atomic operation.
- Are facts that represent some action that happened in the system
- Can be combined with CQRS. For reads we use a NoSQL database but for writes we use an event store. When the write event store updated, it publishes and event telling the read DB to update its state.
- Provides a complete log of every change that has ever happened. Full audit of the system.
- Can create state of any object at given time by replying the event store.
- Can be used to restore the entire read DB.

## Saga Pattern
- Purpose of a transaction is to guarantee an all or nothing outcome.
- A distributed transaction is when a database transaction involves 2 or more network hosts or microservices instead of a single database server
- A saga is a sequence of local transactions where each microservice executes one more local transactions and then publishes an event to trigger the next transaction in saga.
- When one fails, saga executes some compensating transactions to undo the changes.
- Two types:
	- Choreography based: Each microservice publishes and consumes the events
	- Orchestration based: The first microservice creates an orchestrator that publishes the events and also consumes all the events published by next microservices.