
## When to migrate
- Codebase becomes too large and complex.
- Binary size becomes too big and requires complex and expensive hardware to run.
- Development team becomes too big and hard to manage.

## Wrong way to do it:
### Attempt 1: Split by application layers
- Split into frontend, business logic, data persistence 
- Typical 3 layer architecture 
- Minor refactoring required
- Doesn't work well and won't give us microservice benefits, because every change or new feature will require changes to all 3 layers.
- All we did here is to split 3 layers into 5 layers
### Attempt 2: Split by technology boundaries
- For example by languages. Python for ML models, JS for frontend
- Outside stakeholders such as product managers don't know which team should get an incoming task.
- Business logic service will still have too many responsibilities and stay too big 
### Attempt 3: Split by package or class
- Every request from user will go through many many microservices
- Every microservice will need to talk to many other services
- performance will be bad
- Troubleshooting will be impossible 

## Correct Approach 
### Decompose by business capabilities
- Analyze system purely by business capabilities: 
	- Core capabilities that provide value to the business and customer
	- Things such as revenue, marketing, customer experience
- Dedicate each capability to a microservice and a team to own it
-  Run a thought experiment  
	- Describe the system to a non-tech person and describe what the system does and what value it provides. 
	- Example: an online store has abilities such as: `Browse through products`, `Search and view products`, `Read reviews`, `add to shopping cat`, `play orders`, `shipping`, `update and maintain inventory for products`
	- If we split each into their own microservice we will see that they follow all 3 principles. Because each service is responsible for only one business capability, it follows SRP by design.  It also follows cohesion principle because if we need to change policy on how users leave reviews, we only need to change users service/ It is also loosely coupled because if we follow user journeys, we see that the requests can be fulfilled by one or few services.

### Decompose by domain or subdomain
- The criteria for setting boundaries are based on engineers' understanding of the system. 
- Split into different subdomains where each subdomain is a sphere of knowledge, influence and activity.
- This method is easier for engineers.
- Subdomains can be of 3 types:
	1. **Core:** this is what differentiates of our business from any other competitor. Something that cannot be bought or outsourced.   Without it our business has no value.
	2. **Supporting:** Supports our system and is important to our business but not something that differentiates us from competitors.
	3. **Generic:**  Not specific to any business. Many companies use it and we can also just buy the component.
- This categorization helps us decide where we want to put our most resources and experienced devs.
- Once we idenitify subdomains, we can dedicate a service to each or if they are too closely related we can group them into one.
### Other Methods
1. Decomposition by actions
2. Decomposition by entities
### Comparison of two methods

|                                 | **By Business Capabilities** | **By Domain/SubDomain** |
| ------------------------------- | ------------------------ | ------------------- |
| **Cohesion and Loose Coupling** | Winner                   |                     |
| **Size of Microservices**       |                          | Winner              |
| **Stability of Design**         | Winner                   |                     |
| **Intuitive for Devs**          |                          | Winner              |


## Where to Start

### Approach 1 - Bing Bang
- Map out microservice boundaries, then stop any new feature development until full migration is done.
- Very bad impact on business and low productivity:
	- Too many devs working on project is bad.
	- It's difficult to estimate how much work is needed. No ETA.
	- High risk of abandonment.
	- Stopping new feature dev is bad for business.
### Approach 2 - Incremental and Continuous
- Identify components in system that benefit the most from migration:
	- Areas with most development and changes.
	- Components that have high scalability requirements. 
	- Components that have little technical debt. 
- One we are done with one component we again identify the next candidate and keep going, or we stop when the code that is left never changes.
- We do not need to set any hard deadlines for this.
- Business is not disrupted.  

## How to Prepare
1. Ensure we have good test coverage so that we can be sure we didn't break anything during refactoring. 
2. Define the component API.
3. Isolate the component by removing any interdependencies with the rest of the system.

## Perform Migration Using Strangler Fig Pattern
- Introduced by Martin Fowler 
1. Introduce a proxy in front of the application that simply lets the requests to pass through. This is called strangler facade and is implement using API Gateway.
2. Once the newly created microservice is ready, we divert the traffic for that specific API from monolith to the microservice instead.
3. After we monitor the results for sometime, we remove the old component from inside the monolith.
4. Repeat until we have an empty application or a legacy application for old clients.


## Tip To Ensure Smooth Migration 
- Keep the code and tech stack unchanged as much as possible. 
- Every additional change we make is another source for bug.
- Do not add more risk factors to a migration.
- We can start refactoring after migration to microservices is complete.

