
## Cohesion
- Elements that are related to each other and change together should stay together. 
- If we split by application layers our services will not be cohesive enough.

## Single Responsibility 
- Each microservice should do one thing and do it exceptionally well.
- There should be no ambiguity about where a new functionality go and which team is responsible for it.
- Creates an easy to follow API 
- All terminology is bound to a certain context. For example if we talk to the user service we know that the `user-id` is the ID of a user.

## Coupling
- Little to no interdependencies
- The communication with other microservices should be minimal
- Size is not relevant. Microservices do not need to be small!
- Different services will have different sizes


## Database Per Microservice

### Shared Database
- Might seem like a good idea but it is not.
- If we change the database type for one service, all other services that access that DB also need to be updated (single change requires changes to multiple microservices)
- If we add a security policies for one service about how data can be changed, other services can either bypass those or need to change code too.

### One Per Microservice
- Each team owns its own data.
- When a microservice needs to access data of another service, the request needs to go through the target service's API.
- Any changes to the database type or schema will be transparent to all users of their API.
- If changes require us to also change the API, we can always offer two API version (v1, v2, ...)
- But there are also downsides:
	- It adds additional latency and performance overhead. Use caching to solve this.
	- We lose ability to JOIN data from multiple tables: We need to get the data via API then perform the join programmatically.
	- Cannot use transactions. Distributed transactions makes it possible but is hard and almost never used.



## DRY Principle
- One of most fundamental principles of software. 
- If you find yourself constantly repeating the same logic or data you should consolidate it into a shared class, method, variable, or library. 
- We can change the logic in one place and not look for duplicates.
- Reduces the effort as work of one dev can be used by others.
- Does not always hold for microservices, specially for shared libraries. 

### Challenges
- It causes tight coupling if multiple microservices use the same library. If an API change is made to that library, all microservices using the lib must be updated.
- Microservices need to be rebuilt, retest and redeployed every time anything changes in the shared lib.
- A bug in the lib will impact all microservices. 
- We will have a "Dependency Hell". We might end up with depending on two different versions of same library (Some languages will not allow this and in this case we need to update the code to match versions)
- Increases size of binary and time to build and test

### Alternatives
- If we have shared business logic across 2 microservices, this generally means we set the boundaries incorrectly. Each microservice should have a single responsibilities.
- One option is to adjust the boundaries so that only one microservice includes that logic.
- If the business logic is complex enough, we separate it into its own microservice.
- For sharing data models for communication between services, having shared libraries is actually a good practice:
	- Because we always need these to match, if data model of one microservice changes, they need to be able to communicate still. 
- Another approach is using code generation tools based on single schema:
	- This is a good practice for cases where each microservice uses different tech/language.
	- We can generate data models and boilerplate for both microservices from the same schema.
	- Make sure that the generation happens as part of build and test process. 
- For utility code that changes frequently, it is better to duplicate than reuse:
	- Allows each service to have own specific and optimized implementation 
	- Easier to migrate service to another language when needed.

### Options for no duplication
1. Use sidecar pattern
	- Package and deploy the shared functionality as a separate process on the same host as the microservices. 
	- Microservice can communicate with the sidecar using the HTTP protocol. 
	- Performance overhead is small. 
2. Use shared libraries
	- Should be used as a last resort. 
	- Only ok if we have very stable and generic code that almost never changes such as logging, retrying, pattern matching, etc.


### Data Duplication
- It is okay to cache data from other microservices in a different one.
- Only one microservice should be clear owner and source of truth.
- Only one should have write, update, delete perms. Others only read.
- We can only guarantee eventual consistency
- For critical cases where strict consistency is important such as a user's account balance, we should never use caching and always call the source of truth directly. 


## Team Autonomy

### Myth
- One might think that teams should have full freedom to choose their own tech stack, tools, databases, etc. But this is a myth.
- It will increase upfront cost of infrastructure: We need to spend lots of time to figure out how to organize our code, what test tools to use, what build tools, etc.
- Maintaining infrastructure will also be costly since each team will need people familiar with it
- There is a cost in learning all the different best practices, etc. If one dev has to work on another team's task, it will be a learning curve.
- The APIs will be non-uniform. Remember that all microservices have to work together to achieve a bigger task, but if each has different API, we need to learn all their API designs and best practices.
- We need to balance autonomy and structure. Each team can be autonomous but with certain boundaries. 

### 3 Tiers of Autonomy
1. **Tier 1** - Fully Restrictive. Should be same across all microservices of the company.
	- **Infrastructure:** monitoring and alerts, CI/CD, etc.
	- **API guidelines and best practices:** Remember that external clients don't care about which service handles their requests.
	- **Security and compliance:** If one microservice violates a security principle all services can become vulnerable. 
2. **Tier 2** - Freedom with boundaries. Allows each team some freedom but there should be a finite set to choose from.
	- Programming languages
	- Database technologies 
3. Tier 3 - Complete autonomy. 
	- Release process
	- Release schedule and frequency 
	- Custom scripts for local dev and testing
	- Documentation
	- Onboarding process for new devs

### Factors for boundaries
- **Size and influence of DevOps teams:** Companies with more dominant DevOps teams lean towards standards to make job of DevOps easier.
- **If you have more senior devs:** it might be better for them to have more freedom to setup their own infra.
- **Culture of company:** Some companies might only stick with a single language. Can easily move devs across teams.


## Front-End

### Problems with monolithic front-end
- Suppose we have designed our backend using microservices architecture but on the front-end we only have one codebase and the front-end team is responsible for all UI components.
- But now if one of the backend microservice teams needs to add a new feature, they need to ask the front-end team to dedicate their time implementing that feature on the front-end in addition to the microservice implementation.
- Creates a dependency for all microservices.
- Frontend team needs to constantly learn about other microservices. Tightly couples frontend and backend teams.
- Codebase becomes too large, difficult and slow to maintain, test, and build.
### Micro Frontends
- Split the frontend into multiple frontend libraries or modules that act as independent SPA.
- This is a architecture pattern not a framework. But there are many frameworks that support this pattern.
- Micro-frontends are not shared reusable UI elements. But different micro-frontends may reuse common UI elements such as buttons.
- Can be split using business capabilities or domain/subdomain. Just like microservices.
- Usually each page is a different micro-frontend but we can also have multiple micro-frontends on the same page as long as each is completely decoupled from others and knows how to load, mount, unmount itself.
- Each can also be loaded in browser as standalone webapp for testing.
- All micro-frontends are assembled together at runtime by container web app.
- Role of container web app is to:
	- Render common elements such as footer and header
	- Take care of common functionality such as authentication and shared libs.
	- Tell each micro-frontend when and where to render on the page.

### Benefits of Micro Frontends
- Replaces a complex monolithic codebase with small and manageable micro-frontends. 
- Allows each team to own full-stack.
- Easier and faster to test in isolation.
- Each have their own CI/CD.

### Best Practices
- Make sure micro-frontends are loaded at runtime. Not as compiled and build-time dependencies. 
- Don't share state in the browser. It would be same as microservices sharing a database.
- If you need to communicate with other micro-frontends use:
	- Custom events
	- Callbacks
	- Address bar


## API Management 

### Common Problems
- Tight coupling API endpoints to client-side code.
- Different types of APIs for different consumers (public, private, partner, etc)
- Different API tiers based on subscription levels. For example a limited API for free users.
- Controlling and monitoring requests. For example if a front-end needs to call multiple microservices monitoring and tracking the request across the entire system would be really hard.
- Each service has to implement its own authentication, rate limiting, etc.

### API Gateway
- Very useful for microservices pattern
- An API Gateway service becomes the entry point. 
- Routes the requests to appropriate microservice. 
- Transform the input data to a different format that works with given microservice.
- Can also do transformation for the response.
- Can perform traffic management and throttling to prevent putting too much load on the microservice.
- Can perform authentication so microservices don't need to worry about it.
- Can easily monitor frontend requests.
- Fan out the request to multiple services and aggregate the results before sending it back to the client. 
- Helps mobile users because each request affects battery life. 

### Load Balancer vs API Gateway
- Both route a request from client to a single destination.
- They have different purposes: 
- Load balancer's job is to balance the traffic load across various servers, where the servers run identical copies of the same app. We can have a load balancer in front of each and every microservice. 
- API Gateway's job is the be our system's public facing interface. It routes requests to services, not servers.
- Load balancer is simple as possible, has little performance overhead, performs health checks. It also offers different load balancing algos for different workloads.
- API Gateway does much more such as throttling, monitoring, API Versioning, and data translations.
- Because they have different purposes they often used together.