
## Why we need it
- If a user subscribes to our service, each of microservices need to be alerted of the subscription.
### Approach 1 
- When a user subscribes, send a request to subscription service, the subscription service processes subscription and sends a request to payment service which processes payments and responds with confirmation. Once subscription service receives the confirmation, it responds with a success to the user.
- There is 100% guarantee that the subscription was successful across all services.
- Chain of requests makes the user wait a long time which causes bad user experience.
- If we cut corners we might end up with inconsistent state where one service doesn't know about subscription status.

### Approach 2: Orchestration Pattern
- Add an orchestration service in front of all the services.
- Can be combined with API Gateway.
- Request will go to orchestration service and be broadcasted to all services in parallel.
- Latency can still be too high if one of the services is having a performance issues.
- Orchestration service becomes tightly coupled with all the services. If API of any of the services changes, orchestration service needs to be updated too.
- If one non-critical service is done, all requests will be denied.

### Approach 3: Event Driven approach 
- Event represents a fact, an action, or a state change that happens in our system.
- Events are always immutable.
- Async communication. Producer doesn't expect to receive a response from consumers.
- Sender doesn't need to be aware of the consumers and their APIs.
- Can be consumed many times by different services. Unlike a request.
- Three components: 
	- **Producer**: Produces the events.
	- **Message Broker:** Stores and routes the events. Allows us to send one event into many consumers. Once it receives an event, it won't be lost.
	- **Consumers:** Consume and process the events.
- With this approach we can send one request to subscription service, which processes subscription, posts a message into a message queue and returns success to the user immediately. 

## Use cases
1. Fire and Forget: cases where sender doesn't expect a response at all. 
	- User requests a report generated. We generate the report and email it.
	- User leaves a review, push to the message queue as user doesn't expect any response back.
2. Reliable delivery:
	- When we cannot afford to lose messages. For example in financial services.
	- If a user submits an order we need to either deliver the order or send an email explaining why it wasn't successful. 
3. Infinite stream of data/events
	- Location data from mobile
	- Sensor data from devices
	- We have a stream of data coming to our system and we need to analyze and aggregate them in real time.
4. Anomaly detection and pattern recognition 
	- Each event represents a fact. Each data alone is not useful but when we put them in a sequence we can gain insights. 
	- For example metrics from our servers.
5. Broadcasting Stage Changes
	- Perfect for event driven arch
	- Producer doesn't need to know about what is consuming it
6. Buffering messages
	- Helps us tolerate sudden traffic spikes.
	- Buffer the messages so that servers can handle them on their own pace.


### When to use sync request/response?
1. Immediate response is needed with some data. 
2. Simple interaction
	- Running cloud managed message broker has costs. 
	- For simple cases, it is better to stick with request response.
3. Starting point:
	- Start with simple request and response model initially then update to event-driven architecture as needed.

## Event Delivery Patterns

### 1. Event Streaming
- Message broker is used as a temporary or permanent storage for events.
- Consumers have full log of events even after they have consumed the events.
- New consumers can join later and reply the events from any point in time to process older events.
- Great choice for reliable delivery
- Great choice for anomaly and pattern detection

### 2. Pub/Sub
- Consumers subscribe to particular topic, queue, or channel to receive only new events after subscription.
- Consumers don't have access to older events here. After message is received by all the subscribers, it is deleted. 
- Good for fire and forget cases, broadcasting, and infinite streams. 


## Message Delivery Semantics

### Problem:
- We send a request from one service to another. It is possible that we never get a response back. Either because the server crashed and never processed the request or the response never made it back. 
- Should we resend the request and risk having the same message processed twice or should we not resend and risk losing data?
- Similar issue exists in event-driven architecture.
- Producer can send message to broker but the request may never make it.
- Broker might receive the message and store it but ack never makes it back to producer.
- Consumer might receive the message but crashes before processing it.
- Consume might process the message successfully but ack never makes it back to broker.

### At Most Once Delivery
- We are ok with losing some data but want to avoid duplication of events.
- If publisher doesn't receive ack from message broker, it should NOT resend the event.
- If message broker doesn't receive the event or crashes before storing the event, we will lose the event.
- Subscriber acknowledges the event before processing it. 
- If subscriber crashes after ack but before processing the event, the broker will not resend the event.
- This strategy is good for when some data loss is okay.
- Provides us with least overhead and lowest latency. 
- For example in a ride-sharing service if we lose some location update events, we are still okay as we can just update it on the next event.

### At Least Once Delivery
- If publisher doesn't receive ack from message broker within a given time, it should resend the message.
- It could result in the same event being stored in the message broker more than once.
- Subscriber first processes the event and only after it is done, it sends the ack back to message broker.
- If subscriber crashes before processing the event, it will receive the same event again.
- Subscriber might end up with the same message twice if it crashes after processing the event but before sending ack. 
- This is good for cases where not delivering an event could result in losing important data. But some duplication is ok.
- For example we may be ok with sending same push notif to a phone twice.
- We can also use this when we already have logic in place to prevent duplicates or override it.
- This strategy has increased latency so it is not a good choice for real-time and high throughput systems.

### Exactly Once Delivery
- Desirable for financial transactions. 
- Most difficult to achieve and has highest latency and overhead.
- When publishing the event, we first obtain an idempotency ID or a sequence number (some message brokers can generate this internally for us). 
- We send this unique id to message broker along with the event.
- If publisher doesn't receive ack, it resends the event with the same ID.
- Message broker will check if an event with the same ID is already in the logs, if it is, the event will be ignored. 
- For subscriber in cases where it includes a state update outside message broker, message broker cannot guarantee more than at least once delivery.
- If subscriber processes the event but doesn't send ack, the broker will assume that message needs to be delivered again.
- Therefore, on subscriber side, we need to implement our own deduplication. We can do this by including the unique idempotency ID to the event record in the database. When we receive the event we first check our DB to see if we already processed that ID or not.